# 2022-23 CST2550 Software Engineering Management and Development coursework1
## Brief Task Description
A vehicle hire company needs a system to track the details of their available vehicles. They have
three types of vehicles available: motorcycle; car and van, each with different information.
A file containing details of vehicles will be made available to you for implementation and
testing, but the system should allow any file to be used, a different file will be used for marking
(do NOT hardcode the filename).
You should use UML diagrams to design the software and the Git version control system with
regular commits which are pushed to a repository on BitBucket.
You should NOT use any third party libraries or code as a part of your solution and all code
must be written by you, e.g. not automatically generated by an IDE. Do not use any non-standard
code or libraries or system calls in your program.

## Scenario
A vehicle hire company has three types of vehicles:
• motorcycle
• car
• van
All vehicles have a make, model, registration number, colour, price (per day), whether it is
currently available and return date if it is not available. Motorcycles also have engine size (in
cubic centimetres), whether it has a passenger seat and if it has luggage space. Cars have engine
size (in litres), number of seats, number of doors. Vans have engine size (in litres), number of
seats, luggage space.
The program will only be used by staff at the vehicle hire company (not by customers), and
will not take payment details.
The system should include the following functionality:
• load vehicles from file
• save vehicles to file
• add vehicle
• remove vehicle
• list all vehicles (only vehicle make, model, registration number, availability)
• display all details of a vehicle
Your program must have input validation to ensure it performs correctly and helpful error
messages informing the user of any correct input. It should be intuitive, i.e. the user shouldn’t
need to read the source code or attend training to know how to use the system.
## Detailed Description
It is recommended that you complete the tasks in the following order as the later sub-tasks will
require the earlier ones.
### Plan Software
Begin by planning which classes you need and how the software will work using UML diagrams,
you should include:
• use case diagram(s)
• class diagram(s)
• activity diagram(s)
Make sure you include classes for each vehicle type and a Vehicle base class.

### Implement Classes
Once you are happy with your design, you should implement the classes, you should have a base
class for Vehicle with any shared member variables and member functions, and derived classes for
each specific type of vehicle with specific member variables and functions.
You should write test cases and Catch2 test code to ensure these classes are working correctly.
### Write Makefile
Create a Makefile to compile the classes. As you implement other source code files add them to
the Makefile. Your Makefile should be able to compile you project using the command make and
should be able to clean your project (remove any compiled files) using make clean.
### Implement the Program
Implement the system using objects of the various classes mentioned above.
Write additional tests for any functions to ensure they work correctly and implement a menu
for the user to interact with the program. The user input should be validated.
### Plan Presentation
Plan a presentation and create presentation slides detailing the design, implementation, testing
and evaluation of your work. This should be about your work, not generic comments about
programming in general.
The presentation should include:
• introduction, including:
– your student number
– a brief description of your project (do not read the coursework task)
– brief overview of the presentation
• design:
– clearly show each of your UML diagrams
– you should briefly describe what the diagrams are showing (do not just read the
diagrams)
• implementation, including:
– your approach, i.e. how you translated the design into working software
– explain what the Makefile was used for
– explain how and why version control was used
– include a screenshot of the BitBucket repository which clearly shows all commits and
commit messages
• testing approach, including:
– a statement of the approach used
– how you applied this approach
– details of test cases, i.e. what was being tested (don’t show the code)
• software demonstration
– Show your understanding of the implementation, not just that you can run the program.
• conclusion, including:
– a brief summary of the work
– limitations of your work (don’t list features which aren’t required)
– how you would approach a similar project in the future to avoid the limitations (don’t
list features which aren’t required)
